feat: rescue-customer-windows change password dedicated page (#6454)
ovh/docs: pages/bare_metal_cloud/dedicated_servers/rcw-changing-admin-password-on-windows/guide.en-gb.md

Connect to your server in Remote Desktop using the credentials provided by email.

Please note that the user name for the rescue is `Administrator`.

- If you server uses software RAID on your Windows disk, you have to import your Windows local disk to be able to access it: follow the instructions of the section [A) Importing your local Windows disk](#sectionA).
- If you server does not use software RAID on your Windows disk, you should be able to access directly access the local Windows disk as explained in the section [B) Resetting the pasword ](#sectionB).

#### A) Importing your local Windows disk <a name="sectionA"></a>

##### 1. Access disk management

Right-click the `Start`{.action} menu and select `Disk Management`{.action}.

![disk_manager_menu](images/disk_manager_menu.png){.thumbnail}

You can then see the disks and volumes of the server.

![disk_manager_window](images/disk_manager_window1.png){.thumbnail}

Your server's Windows disk is probably *disk 1*, so you must import it to be able to access it.
Please note that if you have several disk groups, the number of the Windows disk may vary, you may have to import several disks to get the Windows one.

> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You also have to import the second disk to properly import your software RAID volume.

```

Author: done line 55

##### 2. Importing local disk

Right-click *Disk 1* and select `Online`{.action}.

![disk_import_disk1](images/disk_manager_disk1on.png){.thumbnail}

> Do the same thing for the second disk (Disk 2) to properly import your software raid.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Do the same thing for the second disk (Disk 2) to properly import the software RAID volume.
```

Right-click *Disk 2* and select `Online`{.action}.

![disk_import_disk2](images/disk_manager_disk2on.png){.thumbnail}

Disks are now seen as "Dynamic" and "Foreign".

Right-click *Disk 1* again and select `Import Foreign Disks`{.action}.

![disk_import_menu](images/disk_manager_diskimport.png){.thumbnail}

Click `OK` twice:

![disk_import1](images/disk_import1.png){.thumbnail}

![disk_import2](images/disk_import2.png){.thumbnail}

> Here, you can see that the local disk is now accessible and the Windows disk is drive `E:` (spreading on two disks because it is in software RAID).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You can see that the local disk is now accessible and that the Windows disk is drive `(E:)` (spreading on two software RAID disks with Mirrored volume type).
```

![disk_import_sync](images/disk_import_sync.png){.thumbnail}

> [!primary]

> > In this example, the volume status is "Resynching" because the server was hard-rebooted in rescue mode. This is the normal behaviour and it is not caused by the rescue itself.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
> In this example the volume status is "Resynching" because the server was hard-rebooted in rescue mode. This is an expected status and it is not caused by the rescue itself.
```

> > This will not affect data on the volume and resynchronisation will continue after the server is rebooted on its normal OS.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
> This will not affect data on the volume and resynchronisation will continue once the server is rebooted on its installed OS.
```

> [!warning]
>
> You must then use the path of your local Windows directory (here it is `E:\Windows`) when browsing to find the "SAM" configuration file below.

You can now reset the password by following the instructions below.

> #### B) Resetting the pasword <a name="sectionB"></a>

Reviewer: ```suggestion
#### B) Resetting the password <a name="sectionB"></a>
```

> To reset passwords, the NTPWEdit tool is required.<br>
> Once you are connected via Remote Desktop, open the browser and download it from its official website.<br>
> Navigate to the folder where the downloaded ZIP file is located and extract its content.<br>

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To reset passwords, the NTPWEdit tool is required.
Once you are connected via Remote Desktop, open the web browser (MS Edge) and download the tool from the [official website](http://www.cdslow.org.ru/files/ntpwedit/ntpwed07.zip).
Navigate to the folder where the downloaded ZIP file is located and extract its content.
```

Next, open the `ntpwedit64` executable to start the application.

In this interface, you can manipulate the SAM file in order to clear the admin user's password.

> You must browse the local Windows drive to find your server's SAM file.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You must browse the local Windows drive to find your system's SAM file.
```

> Click the three dots button (`...`{.action}) to browse the drive containing your server's local Windows drive

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Click the three dots button (`...`{.action}) to browse the drive containing your server's local Windows folder.
```

> It usually is `Windows (E:\)`

Reviewer: ```suggestion
It usually is the `Windows (E:\)` drive.
```

![ntpwedit1](images/ntpwedit_1.png){.thumbnail}

Browse to `E:\WINDOWS\SYSTEM32\CONFIG\`

> Open the SAM file to display the list of users by clicking `Open`{.action}.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Select and open the SAM file to display the user accounts by clicking `Open`{.action}.
```

![ntpwedit_sam](images/SAM.png){.thumbnail}

> The relevant user will either be "admin" or "Administrator", depending on the Windows version. If both are present, choose "admin". Then click `Change password`{.action}.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Select the user account "admin" and click on `Change password`{.action}.
```

![ntpwedit2](images/ntpwedit_2.png){.thumbnail}

In the pop-up window, leave the fields empty and click `OK`{.action}. Finish by clicking `Save changes and Exit`{.action}.

> After this, the server needs to be rebooted again.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
After this, the server needs to be rebooted on the normal operating system.
```

### Step 3 - Rebooting the server <a name="step3"></a>

First, change the netboot back to "Boot from the hard disk" in your OVHcloud Control Panel (see [step 1](#step1)).

Then restart the server from the Control Panel.

Click the `...`{.action} button near "Status" in the "Service Status" section and click `Restart`{.action}.

![reboot](images/reboot.png){.thumbnail}

### Step 4 - Setting a new password (IPMI) <a name="step4"></a>

In your OVHcloud Control Panel, navigate to the IPMI tab to open a KVM session.

![adminpw3](images/adminpw3.png){.thumbnail}

#### For a newer version of Windows

> Once you have accessed your server through IPMI, click the hourglass icon on the bottom-left. Start typing `Sign-in options` and click the `Sign-in options`{.action} button once it pops up.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Once you have accessed your server through IPMI, click the start menu icon on the bottom-left. Start typing `Sign-in options` and click the `Sign-in options`{.action} button once it pops up.
```

---
title: "Reset Administrator password when using Rescue-Customer-Windows"
excerpt: "Reset Administrator password when using Rescue-Customer-Windows"
updated: 2024-05-21
---

## Objective

> This guide will help you to reset your `Administrator`'s password with the new __*rescue-customer-windows*__

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
This guide will help you to reset your `Administrator`'s password with the __*Windows customer rescue system*__
```
I dropped the "new" because it generally doesn't age well. We've set requirements forcing users to either see the "old" WinPE rescue or the "new" one so I don't think we should bother about "new" here.

## Requirements

- Microsoft Windows installed on your [dedicated server](/links/bare-metal/bare-metal)
- At least 16 GB of RAM installed on the server
- Access to the [OVHcloud Control Panel](/links/manager)

> [!warning]
>
> This is not compatible with the `WinPE Rescue`.  

> > Use this [page](/pages/bare_metal_cloud/dedicated_servers/changing-admin-password-on-windows/guide.en-gb.md) if you are using the `WinPe Rescue`.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
> Follow  [this guide](/pages/bare_metal_cloud/dedicated_servers/changing-admin-password-on-windows/guide.en-gb.md) if you are using the `WinPe Rescue`.
```
Also, this one is currently called "Rescue System for Windows", we probably need to change this to avoid ambiguity.

>

## Instructions

### Step 1: Rebooting the server into rescue mode <a name="step1"></a>

> The system has to be started in rescue mode (WinRescue) before the admin password can be changed.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The system has to be started in Windows customer rescue system before the admin password can be changed.
```
And there are probably more occurrences where the name should be updated.

> For detailed instructions, please refer to the rescue mode guide.

Reviewer 2: Link?

### Step 2: Clearing the current password <a name="step2"></a>

Connect to your server in Remote Desktop using the credentials provided by email.

Please note that the user name for the rescue is `Administrator`.

> If you server have software raid on your Windows disk, you have to import your Windows local disk to be able to access it : follow instructions of [section A](#sectionA)

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
If you server uses software RAID for your Windows disk, you have to import your Windows local disk to be able to access it: follow the instructions of [section A](#sectionA)
```
Here, what we call "disk" is actually a "partition"? Or should it be plural because we refer to multiple physical disks?

Reviewer: Better not enter technical complexity of windows software raid definitions of disk/partition/volume/plex, for the sake of customers' sanity. 
And "Windows disk" because if you have raid on non system disk it won't matter when resetting password.

> If you server have no software raid on your Windows disk, you should be able to access directly access the local Windows disk as explained in [section B](#sectionB)

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
If you server does not use software RAID for your Windows disk, you should be able to directly access the local Windows disk as explained in [section B](#sectionB)
```

> #### A) Import your local Windows disk <a name="sectionA"></a>

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
#### A) Importing your local Windows disk <a name="sectionA"></a>
```
For consistency with your other titles.

1) __Access disk management__

> Right click the start menu and select "Disk Management"

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Right-click the start menu and select "Disk Management"
```

![disk_manager_menu](images/disk_manager_menu.png)

> You can then see the disks and volumes of the server

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
You can then see the disks and volumes of the server.
```

![disk_manager_window](images/disk_manager_window1.png)

> Your server's Windows disk is probably the disk 1, so you must import it to be able to access it.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Your server's Windows disk is probably disk 1, so you must import it to be able to access it.
```

> Please note that if you have several disk groups the disk number of Windows may vary, you may have to import several disks to get the Windows one.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Please note that if you have several disk groups, the number of the Windows disk may vary, you may have to import several disks to get the Windows one.
```

2) __Import local disk__

> Right click on Disk 1 and select "Online"

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Right-click on Disk 1 and select "Online"
```
I didn't fix them all but the verb has a hyphen https://en.wiktionary.org/wiki/right-click

![disk_import_disk1](images/disk_manager_disk1on.png)

Do the same thing for the second disk (Disk 2) to properly import your software raid.

> Right click on Disk 2 and select "Online"

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Right click Disk 2 and select "Online"
```
> Style guides for technical writers generally recommend using click transitively (for example: click the button), but intransitive use with on (click on the icon) is also widespread.
> https://en.wiktionary.org/wiki/click#Usage_notes

IMO you should remove all "click on" for consistency, I might have missed some.

![disk_import_disk2](images/disk_manager_disk2on.png)

Disks are now seen as "Dynamic" and "Foreign"

> Right click again Disk 1 and select "Import Foreign Disks"

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Right-click Disk 1 again and select "Import Foreign Disks"
```

![disk_import_menu](images/disk_manager_diskimport.png)

> Click "OK" twice :

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Click "OK" twice:
```

![disk_import1](images/disk_import1.png)
![disk_import2](images/disk_import2.png)

> Here, you can see that the local disk is now accessible and the Windows volume is drive "E:" (spreading on two disks because it is in software raid)

Reviewer 2: "Windows disk" or "Windows volume"? If those are the same, can we pick one and use it consistently?

Can you also capitalize all instances of "RAID"?

Reviewer: See previous comment about complexity of terminology of software raid : a partition becomes a volume once it is part of windows software raid.

>Can you also capitalize all instances of "RAID"?

Please help yourself

![disk_import_sync](images/disk_import_sync.png)

> Note: In this example the volume status is "Resynching" because server was hard rebooted in rescue. This is a normal behaviour and it is not caused by the rescue.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Note: In this example, the volume status is "Resynching" because server was hard-rebooted in rescue. This is normal behaviour and it is not caused by the rescue itself.
```

> This will not affect data on the volume and resynchronisation will continue after server is rebooted on its normal OS.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
This will not affect data on the volume and resynchronisation will continue after the server is rebooted on its normal OS.
```

> [!warning]
>

> > You must then use the path of your local Windows directory (here it is E:\Windows) when browsing to find the configuration file "SAM" below.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
> You must then use the path of your local Windows directory (here it is E:\Windows) when browsing to find the  "SAM" configuration file below.
```

You can now reset the password by following the instructions in [section B](#sectionB)

> #### B) Reset the pasword <a name="sectionB"></a>

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
#### B) Resetting the pasword <a name="sectionB"></a>
```
For consistency with your other titles.

> To reset passwords, the tool NTPWEdit is required.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
To reset passwords, the NTPWEdit tool is required.
```

Once you are connected via Remote Desktop, open the browser and download it from the official website.

> Navigate to the folder where the downloaded ZIP file is located and extract the contents.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Navigate to the folder where the downloaded ZIP file is located and extract its contents.
```

Next, open the ntpwedit64 executable to start the application.

In this interface, you can manipulate the SAM file in order to clear the admin user's password.

You must browse to the local Windows drive to find your server's SAM file.

> Click the three dots to browse to the drive containing your server local Windows drive

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Click the three dots to browse to the drive containing your server's local Windows drive.
```
Same question as before: drive or volume?

Typically it is Windows (E:\)

![ntpwedit1](images/ntpwedit_1.png)

Browse to E:\WINDOWS\SYSTEM32\CONFIG\

> Open the SAM file to display the list of users by clicking on Open.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Open the SAM file to display the list of users by clicking "Open".
```

![ntpwedit_sam](images/SAM.png)

> The relevant user will either be "admin" or "Administrator", depending on the Windows version. If both are present, choose "admin". Then click on Change password.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The relevant user will either be "admin" or "Administrator", depending on the Windows version. If both are present, choose "admin". Then click "Change password".
```

![ntpwedit2](images/ntpwedit_2.png)

> In the popup window, leave the fields blank and click OK. Finish by clicking on Save changes and Exit.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
In the popup window, leave the fields blank and click OK. Finish by clicking "Save changes" and "Exit".
```

After this, the server needs to be rebooted again.

### Step 3: Rebooting the server <a name="step3"></a>

> First, change the netboot back to Boot from the hard disk in your OVHcloud Control Panel (see [step 1](#step1)).

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
First, change the netboot back to "Boot from the hard disk" in your OVHcloud Control Panel (see [step 1](#step1)).
```

Then restart the server from the Control Panel.

> Click the three dots near Status in the Service Status section and select "Restart"

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Click the three dots near "Status" in the "Service Status" section and select "Restart"
```

![reboot](images/reboot.png)

### Step 4: Setting a new password (IPMI) <a name="step4"></a>

In your OVHcloud Control Panel, navigate to the IPMI tab to open a KVM session.

![adminpw3](images/adminpw3.png)

#### For a newer version of Windows

> Once you have accessed your server through IPMI, click the hourglass on the bottom-left. Begin to type "Sign-in options" and click on Sign-in options once it pops up.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Once you have accessed your server through IPMI, click the hourglass on the bottom-left. Start typing "Sign-in options" and click on Sign-in options once it pops up.
```

![adminpw7](images/adminpw7.png)

> Next, click the Add button under "Password" to set your new password.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Next, click the "Add" button under "Password" to set your new password.
```
I tried to add quotes around all menu items but I may have missed some.

You can now reset the password by following the instructions below.

#### B) Resetting the password <a name="sectionB"></a>

To reset passwords, the NTPWEdit tool is required.
Once you are connected via Remote Desktop, open the web browser (MS Edge) and download the tool from the [official website](http://www.cdslow.org.ru/files/ntpwedit/ntpwed07.zip).
Navigate to the folder where the downloaded ZIP file is located and extract its content.
Next, open the `ntpwedit64` executable to start the application.

In this interface, you can manipulate the SAM file in order to clear the admin user's password.

You must browse the local Windows drive to find your system's SAM file.

Click the three dots button (`...`{.action}) to browse the drive containing your server's local Windows folder.

It usually is the `Windows (E:\)` drive.

![ntpwedit1](images/ntpwedit_1.png){.thumbnail}

Browse to `E:\WINDOWS\SYSTEM32\CONFIG\`

Select and open the SAM file to display the user accounts by clicking `Open`{.action}.

![ntpwedit_sam](images/SAM.png){.thumbnail}

> Select the user account "admin" and click on `Change password`{.action}.

Reviewer 2: I believe using "click" and not "click on" was deliberate:
> Style guides for technical writers generally recommend using click transitively (for example: click the button), but intransitive use with on (click on the icon) is also widespread. The style guides do accept the use of in in phrases like click in the field. 
> https://en.wiktionary.org/wiki/click

Reviewer 3: Both OK
